Q-learning algorithm developed within the framework of a Markov Decision Process, based on the data from "HeartSteps V1" study. Predrag, K., Murphy, S., Hekler, E., Ambuj, T., Jackson, L., Smith, S., Lee, A., & Seewald, N. (2023, July 18). HeartStepsV1. GitHub. https://github.com/klasnja/HeartStepsV1/tree/main/data_files.
    
The HeartSteps dataset was cleaned and processed:       
From 86 columns of data, 14 variables were selected (user index, suggestion selection slot, suggestion decision time, suggestion selection time, suggestion time zone, suggestion response time, response or feedback, jawbone tracker steps measured 30 minutes before, jawbone tracker steps measured 30 minutes after, sending a notification, indoor tag, outdoor tag, location category, weather condition). Of 37 unique users, 11 users were kept. This choice was based on the number of users that have the most frequent number of datapoints to ensure all the possible states were present for all the users. As users joined the study at different dates and 203 unique dates are included in the dataset, the number of days a participant generated datapoints is averaged around 46, being 43 days the most frequent value for data generated by a user. A number registered only by 11 participants. 63% of the responses to the notifications (good, bad, no response) are missing values which were replaced with ‘no response’ values. Likewise, 11% of the steps recorded 30 minutes before and 30 minutes after the notifications are missing. These values were replaced by 0 as done by the authors (Klasnja et al., 2018). 

Consequently, to formalize the MDP problem, distributions of probabilities representing the user’s steps and feedback behavior for each selected timeslot were extracted from the data.
